README.md, before:

# pdfbook2 - transform pdf files to booklets

    pdfbook2 v1.4 (https://github.com/jenom/pdfbook2)
    (c) 2015 - 2020 Johannes Neumann (http://www.neumannjo.de)
    licensed under GPLv3 (http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
    based on pdfbook by David Firth with help from Marco Pessotto
    
## DESCRIPTION

    Create print-ready PDF files from some INPUT PDF files for booklet printing.
    The resulting files need to be printed in landscape/long edge double sided
    printing. The default paper format depends on the locale and is choosen by
    pdfjam. It can be set with the --paper option. 
    
    Before the pdf is composed the INPUT file is cropped to the relevant area in
    order to discard unnecessary white spaces. In this process, all pages are
    cropped to the same dimensions. Extra margins can be defined at the edges of 
    the booklet and in the middle where the binding occurs.
    
    The OUTPUT is written to INPUT-book.pdf. Existing files will be overwritten.
    All input files are processed seperatly.

## LICENSE      
             
    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
    under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free 
    Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) 
    any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
    ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for 
    more details. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public 
    License along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
    
## INSTALLATION

    Simply copy the file to any convenient location preferably covered by the 
    PATH variable of your shell. Make sure it is set as executable like
        
        chmod +x pdfbook2
    
    for unix like systems.
    
## REQUIREMENTS

    python 3.6, pdfjam, pdfcrop and their dependencies.
    
## EXAMPLES

    To simply create a booklet from input.pdf you can use
        
        pdfbook2 input.pdf
        
    to create input-book.pdf. To select a special type of paper you can do
        
        pdfbook2 --paper=letter input.pdf
    
    for letter or
        
        pdfbook2 --paper=a4paper input.pdf
        
    for standard A4. To increase the inner margin for binding use
    
        pdfbook2 --inner-margin=200 input.pdf
        
    to increase the default value of 150. You can submit multiple files to the 
    script for processing like
        
        pdfbook2 input1.pdf input2.pdf
        
    which will result in input1-book.pdf and input2-book.pdf.
    
## USAGE

    pdfbook2 [options] file1 [file2 ...]

## OPTIONS

    --version   show program's version number and exit
    --help, -h  show this help message and exit

    GENERAL

        --paper=STR, -p STR
                Format of the output paper dimensions as latex keyword (e.g.
                a4paper, letterpaper, legalpaper, ...)
        --short-edge, -s
                Format the booklet for short-edge double-sided printing
        --no-crop, -n
                Prevent the cropping to the content area

    MARGINS

        --outer-margin=INT, -o INT
                Defines the outer margin in the booklet (default: 40)
        --inner-margin=INT, -i INT
                Defines the inner margin between the pages in the booklet
                (default: 150)
        --top-margin=INT, -t INT
                Defines the top margin in the booklet (default: 30)
        --bottom-margin=INT, -b INT
                Defines the bottom margin in the booklet (default: 30)

    ADVANCED

        --signature=INT
                Define the signature for the booklet handed to pdfjam, needs to 
                be multiple of 4 (default: 4)
        --signature*=INT
                Same as --signature
        --resolution=INT
                Resolution used by ghostscript in bp (default: 72)

## CHANGELOG

    1.4 2020/01/20
    
        -   migration to Python 3
        -   fixed bug if the input document had only one page
        -   fix for signature option not working

    1.3 2019/08/12

        -    removed wait after popen to prevent deadlock with very large documents

    1.2 2015/06/03
        
        -   added man page

    1.1 2015/06/01
        
        -   added resolution, signature, no-crop options
        -   better handling of input files with different margins on odd and 
            even pages
        -   added short options
        -   speedup for bound calculations and cropping by setting ghostscript
            resolution to 72 (ref. --resolution option)

    1.0 2015/05/27 
        
        -   initial version

Commit message:

Added --papersize option. This option was part of the original pdfbook script.

README.md, after:

# pdfbook2 - transform pdf files to booklets

    pdfbook2 v1.4 (https://github.com/jenom/pdfbook2)
    (c) 2015 - 2020 Johannes Neumann (http://www.neumannjo.de)
    licensed under GPLv3 (http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)
    based on pdfbook by David Firth with help from Marco Pessotto
    
## DESCRIPTION

    Create print-ready PDF files from some INPUT PDF files for booklet printing.
    The resulting files need to be printed in landscape/long edge double sided
    printing. The default paper format depends on the locale and is choosen by
    pdfjam. It can be set with the --paper option. 
    
    Before the pdf is composed the INPUT file is cropped to the relevant area in
    order to discard unnecessary white spaces. In this process, all pages are
    cropped to the same dimensions. Extra margins can be defined at the edges of 
    the booklet and in the middle where the binding occurs.
    
    The OUTPUT is written to INPUT-book.pdf. Existing files will be overwritten.
    All input files are processed seperatly.

## LICENSE      
             
    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it 
    under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free 
    Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) 
    any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
    ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for 
    more details. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public 
    License along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
    
## INSTALLATION

    Simply copy the file to any convenient location preferably covered by the 
    PATH variable of your shell. Make sure it is set as executable like
        
        chmod +x pdfbook2
    
    for unix like systems.
    
## REQUIREMENTS

    python 3.6, pdfjam, pdfcrop and their dependencies.
    
## EXAMPLES

    To simply create a booklet from input.pdf you can use
        
        pdfbook2 input.pdf
        
    to create input-book.pdf. To select a special type of paper you can do
        
        pdfbook2 --paper=letter input.pdf
    
    for letter or
        
        pdfbook2 --paper=a4paper input.pdf
        
    for standard A4. To increase the inner margin for binding use
    
        pdfbook2 --inner-margin=200 input.pdf
    
    for custom paper size (eg. 5x10 inch) use 
        
	pdfbook2 --papersize='{5in,10in}' input.pdf

    to increase the default value of 150. You can submit multiple files to the 
    script for processing like
        
        pdfbook2 input1.pdf input2.pdf
        
    which will result in input1-book.pdf and input2-book.pdf.
    
## USAGE

    pdfbook2 [options] file1 [file2 ...]

## OPTIONS

    --version   show program's version number and exit
    --help, -h  show this help message and exit

    GENERAL

        --paper=STR, -p STR
                Format of the output paper dimensions as latex keyword (e.g.
                a4paper, letterpaper, legalpaper, ...)
	--papersize=STR
		Format of the output paper dimensions as string eg. '{5in,10in}'. (Note the braces, and the comma!).
        	Option has no effect if 'geometry' not installed.
        --short-edge, -s
                Format the booklet for short-edge double-sided printing
        --no-crop, -n
                Prevent the cropping to the content area

    MARGINS

        --outer-margin=INT, -o INT
                Defines the outer margin in the booklet (default: 40)
        --inner-margin=INT, -i INT
                Defines the inner margin between the pages in the booklet
                (default: 150)
        --top-margin=INT, -t INT
                Defines the top margin in the booklet (default: 30)
        --bottom-margin=INT, -b INT
                Defines the bottom margin in the booklet (default: 30)

    ADVANCED

        --signature=INT
                Define the signature for the booklet handed to pdfjam, needs to 
                be multiple of 4 (default: 4)
        --signature*=INT
                Same as --signature
        --resolution=INT
                Resolution used by ghostscript in bp (default: 72)

## CHANGELOG

    1.4 2020/01/20
    
        -   migration to Python 3
        -   fixed bug if the input document had only one page
        -   fix for signature option not working

    1.3 2019/08/12

        -    removed wait after popen to prevent deadlock with very large documents

    1.2 2015/06/03
        
        -   added man page

    1.1 2015/06/01
        
        -   added resolution, signature, no-crop options
        -   better handling of input files with different margins on odd and 
            even pages
        -   added short options
        -   speedup for bound calculations and cropping by setting ghostscript
            resolution to 72 (ref. --resolution option)

    1.0 2015/05/27 
        
        -   initial version
